# Delayed embed

You may decide to combine pgai with [Timescaledb Background Actions][tsdb_actions].
and you can also use the `pgai` extension to run background actions.

## Security concerns

There are some security concerns when running background actions, specially
because you may need to access some external service, like OpenAI API.

You should be aware of how you're storing your keys and how it can be accessed.

The background action should be run by a user that has the necessary permissions
but it also needs to access some shared memory with the api key or receive it
via payload.

If you store it in the payload, make sure you're using a secure connection and
also that your secrets are renewed frequently.

You can also setup this settings at your server level, for example, you can
add a new config to the system:

```bash
echo "ai.openai_api_key=${API_KEY}" >> /path/to/postgresql.conf
```

If you're running as admin, you can also use `ALTER SYSTEM` to persist the configuration
directly from your session:

```sql
SET ai.openai_api_key TO :'OPENAI_API_KEY' ;
```

!!!warning "Plain text keys 🔑"
    Remember your keys are stored in plain text in the configuration file.
    **Use it at your own risk.**

    ```sql
    ALTER SYSTEM SET ai.openai_api_key TO :'OPENAI_API_KEY' ;
    ```

    Remember that ALTER SYSTEM will propagate the config in the server
    after changing the configuration.

## Delayed vector example

Let's imagine you're receiving documents and want to process the embedings in the
background. You can use the `pgai` extension to run the embedding in the
background action and store the result later.

Want to run it? Check the [full script here][delayed_embed].

First install [pgvectorscale][pgvectorscale] extension:

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS vectorscale CASCADE;
```

You can create a function that will be called by the background action:

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS vectorscale CASCADE;
```

This table will store the documents and their embeddings:

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS document_embedding  (
    id BIGINT PRIMARY KEY GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY,
    metadata JSONB,
    contents TEXT,
    embedding VECTOR(1536)
);
```

Let's also use our DiskANN index to [speed up][pinecone_comparison] the search:

```sql
CREATE INDEX document_embedding_idx ON document_embedding
USING diskann (embedding);
```

Now, we're going to build a background job with timescaledb action
that will populate the embedding column with the embeddings of the contents:


```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION populate_embedding(job_id int, config jsonb) returns void as $$
DECLARE
  r record;
  api_key text;
BEGIN
  api_key := config->>'api_key';
  FOR r IN select id, contents from document_embedding where embedding IS NULL LIMIT 1 FOR UPDATE SKIP LOCKED LOOP
    update document_embedding
    set embedding = openai_embed('text-embedding-ada-002', r.contents, api_key)
      SELECT id
    where id = r.id;
  END LOOP;
END;
$$ language plpgsql;
```

!!!warning "api_key exposed in the payload!"
    If you cannot set the api_key in the configuration file, you can pass it as
    a parameter to the function.

    Note that the api_key is being passed as a parameter to the function.

    ```sql
    SELECT add_job('populate_embedding','10s', fixed_schedule => true,
    config => format('{"api_key": "%s"}', :'OPENAI_API_KEY')::jsonb);
    ```

If you're able to spread the config to the backend, you can simply schedule the
job to run every 10 seconds:

```sql
SELECT add_job('populate_embedding','10s', fixed_schedule => true);
```


Now you can insert a new document:

```sql
insert into document_embedding (contents) values
  ('Test document embedding');
```

Wait at least 10 seconds and then check the table:

```sql
select * from document_embedding;
```

[tsdb_actions]: https://docs.timescale.com/timescaledb/latest/how-to-guides/background-jobs/
[pgvectorscale]: https://github.com/timescale/pgvectorscale
[pinecone_comparison]: https://www.timescale.com/blog/pgvector-is-now-as-fast-as-pinecone-at-75-less-cost?utm_source=pgai-examples
[delayed_embed]: /examples/delayed_embed.sql
